A speech by The Duke of Sussex at a visit to the Justice Desk, Cape Town, South Africa
We are so incredibly grateful to be able to listen and learn from you about the issues that define your daily lives in these communities. And that’s what this is, a community.MolweniThis is the definitely the first time I’ve spoken on top of a stump! So I thank you.And thank you very much for the warm welcome today. It was incredibly important to my wife and me to begin our trip to South Africa here in Nyanga with all of you, so thank you for having us!As someone who has visited this amazing country many times, and as someone who regards Cape Town as a uniquely special place in Africa, I wanted to ensure that our first visit as a family – with my wife by my side – focused on the significant challenges facing millions of South Africans, while acknowledging the hope that we feel so strongly here.We are so incredibly grateful to be able to listen and learn from you about the issues that define your daily lives in these communities. And that’s what this is, a community. A community where men and women have a vital role to play. Touching on what your President said last week – no man is born to cause harm to women, this is learned behaviour, and a cycle that needs to be broken.So now, it’s about redefining masculinity, it’s about creating your own footprints for your children to follow in, so that you can make a positive change for the future.To me, the real testament of your strength isn’t physical, it’s what’s up here and what’s in here. Your strength is in your spirit, which for me means honouring and protecting my wife, and being a positive role model for my son.Your determination here in this township to overcome extreme adversity is testament to leadership shown by people like Theodora and many many organisations who offer vital support on a daily basis. Meghan and I are truly inspired by your resilience, your spirit, your sense of community, and your belief in a better future for everyone here.I applaud you for the movement. And we know that you haven’t been heard before, but change is coming, now is the time to come together as a community, and we applaud those of you who are leading the way for South Africa’s ongoing transformation.